=====================================================================

 19th ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Functional Programming

 ICFP 2014

 Gothenburg, Sweden, 1-3 September 2014

 http://www.icfpconference.org/icfp2014

=====================================================================

Important Dates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   Submissions due:  Saturday, 1 March 2014, 23:59 UTC-11 
                                        (anywhere in the world)
   Author response:  Wednesday, 23 April, 2014
                       Friday, 25 April, 2014
      Notification:  Monday, 5 May, 2014      
    Final copy due:  Wednesday, 11 June, 2014

Scope
~~~~~

ICFP 2014 seeks original papers on the art and science of functional
programming.  Submissions are invited on all topics from principles to
practice, from foundations to features, and from abstraction to
application.  The scope includes all languages that encourage
functional programming, including both purely applicative and
imperative languages, as well as languages with objects, concurrency,
or parallelism.  Topics of interest include (but are not limited to):

* Language Design: concurrency and distribution; modules; components
  and composition; metaprogramming; interoperability; type systems;
  relations to imperative, object-oriented, or logic programming

* Implementation: abstract machines; virtual machines; interpretation;
  compilation; compile-time and run-time optimization; memory
  management; multi-threading; exploiting parallel hardware; interfaces
  to foreign functions, services, components, or low-level machine
  resources

* Software-Development Techniques: algorithms and data structures;
  design patterns; specification; verification; validation; proof
  assistants; debugging; testing; tracing; profiling

* Foundations: formal semantics; lambda calculus; rewriting; type
  theory; monads; continuations; control; state; effects; program
  verification; dependent types

* Analysis and Transformation: control-flow; data-flow; abstract
  interpretation; partial evaluation; program calculation

* Applications and Domain-Specific Languages: symbolic computing;
  formal-methods tools; artificial intelligence; systems programming;
  distributed-systems and web programming; hardware design; databases;
  XML processing; scientific and numerical computing; graphical user
  interfaces; multimedia programming; scripting; system
  administration; security

* Education: teaching introductory programming; parallel programming;
  mathematical proof; algebra

* Functional Pearls: elegant, instructive, and fun essays on
  functional programming

* Experience Reports: short papers that provide evidence that
  functional programming really works or describe obstacles that have
  kept it from working

If you are concerned about the appropriateness of some topic, do not
hesitate to contact the program chair.

Abbreviated instructions for authors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* By Saturday, 1 March 2014, 23:59 UTC-11 (anywhere in the world),
  submit a full paper of at most 12 pages (6 pages for an Experience
  Report), including bibliography and figures.

The deadlines will be strictly enforced and papers exceeding the page
limits will be summarily rejected.

* Authors have the option to attach supplementary material to a submission,
  on the understanding that reviewers may choose not to look at it.

* Each submission must adhere to SIGPLAN's republication policy, as
  explained on the web at
  http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Policies/Republication

* Authors of resubmitted (but previously rejected) papers have the
  option to attach an annotated copy of the reviews of their previous
  submission(s), explaining how they have addressed these previous
  reviews in the present submission.  If a reviewer identifies
  him/herself as a reviewer of this previous submission and wishes to
  see how his/her comments have been addressed, the program chair will
  communicate to this reviewer the annotated copy of his/her previous
  review.  Otherwise, no reviewer will read the annotated copies of
  the previous reviews.

Overall, a submission will be evaluated according to its relevance,
correctness, significance, originality, and clarity.  It should
explain its contributions in both general and technical terms, clearly
identifying what has been accomplished, explaining why it is
significant, and comparing it with previous work.  The technical
content should be accessible to a broad audience.  Functional Pearls
and Experience Reports are separate categories of papers that need not
report original research results and must be marked as such at the
time of submission.  Detailed guidelines on both categories are on the
conference web site.

Proceedings will be published by ACM Press.  Authors of accepted
submissions are expected to transfer the copyright to the ACM.
Presentations will be videotaped and released online if the presenter
consents.  The proceedings will be freely available for download from
the ACM Digital Library from one week before the start of the
conference until two weeks after the conference.

Formatting: Submissions must be in PDF format printable in black and
white on US Letter sized paper and interpretable by
Ghostscript. Papers must adhere to the standard ACM conference format:
two columns, nine-point font on a ten-point baseline, with columns
20pc (3.33in) wide and 54pc (9in) tall, with a column gutter of 2pc
(0.33in).  A suitable document template for LaTeX is available:
http://www.acm.org/sigs/sigplan/authorInformation.htm

Submission: Submissions will be accepted on the web at
https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=icfp2014 . Improved
versions of a paper may be submitted at any point before the
submission deadline using the same web interface.

Author response: Authors will have a 72-hour period, starting at 0:00
UTC-11 on Wednesday, 23 April 2014, to read reviews and respond to them.

ACM Author-Izer is a unique service that enables ACM authors to
generate and post links on either their home page or institutional
repository for visitors to download the definitive version of their
articles from the ACM Digital Library at no charge. Downloads through
Author-Izer links are captured in official ACM statistics, improving
the accuracy of usage and impact measurements. Consistently linking
the definitive version of ACM article should reduce user confusion
over article versioning. After your article has been published and
assigned to your ACM Author Profile page, please visit
http://www.acm.org/publications/acm-author-izer-service to learn how
to create your links for fee downloads from the ACM DL.

General Chair:
  Johan Jeuring, Utrecht University

Program Chair:
  Manuel Chakravarty, University of New South Wales 

Program Committee:
  Edwin Brady, University of St Andrews
  Derek Dreyer, Max Planck Institute for Software Systems
  Ralf Hinze, University of Oxford
  Zhenjiang Hu, National Institute of Informatics
  Patricia Johann, Appalachian State University
  Ken Larsen, University of Copenhagen
  Yukiyoshi Kameyama, University of Tsukuba
  Anil Madhavapeddy, University of Cambridge
  Geoffrey Mainland, Drexel University
  David Mazi√®res, Stanford University
  Jay McCarthy, Brigham Young University
  Matthew Might, University of Utah
  Ulf Norell, Chalmers University of Technology
  Tiark Rompf, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne
  Chung-chieh Shan, Indiana University
  Mary Sheeran, Chalmers University of Technology
  Matt Sottile, Galois
  Don Syme, Microsoft Research
  Jesse Tov, Harvard University
